exercises/exercises.md, before:

# ArgoCD exercises

Note: Keep in mind that ArgoCD synchronises changes from a branch defined inside `targetRevision`. For the following exercises, the target branch is set to `exercises`. Please push all changes you make to the aforementioned branch.

## Exercise 1 - Basics
a) Create an ArgoCD Application for the Kubernetes manifests located inside the exercise-1 folder.  

b) Apply the application to a new namespace `exercise-1` in Argo.  

c) Change the number of replicas in the deployment. Check how Argo handles those changes.  

d) Change the image name in the deployment to something random (an image that does not exist e.g. "silly"). Push the changes to the repository via a new commit. Wait a little, and observe the behaviour of the deployment via the ArgoCD UI.

e) Roll back the changes via the ArgoCD UI. 

## Exercise 2 - Helm

a) Next, you will practise using an ArgoCD application to deploy the K8s-manifests used in the previous example as a Helm Chart. You will find the Helm related setup in the `exercise-2` folder. Create a new ArgoCD-Application-Manifest and deploy the Helm chart to a new namespace `exercise-2`.  

b) Change the ReplicationCount in the values file and apply the changes via a new Commit. 

## Exercise 3 - App of apps

a) Apply the base-app located inside the `exercise-3` folder as is. Once deployed, have a look at the values of the environment variables of one of the containers inside a microservices pod. What is the value? Can you explain your findings?  

b1) Set the value for the `environmentName` to "dev" inside the base-app. Re-apply the base app to the cluster. Monitor the change inside ArgoCD. Open the Live Manifest of one of the pods and have a look at the environment variables again. What has changed?  

b2) Open the `Parameters` section inside one of the microservices applications. Take a note of the replicaCount. Can you explain where this value originates?   

c) Could you come up with a solution for the following scenario?

The value of the `replicaCount` for "dev" should be changed to:
 - **5** for microservice-1  
 - **1** for microservice-2
 - microservice-3 should maintain the value **3** *independently* of the `environmentName` value. However, the image tag inside the deployment for microservice 3 should be set to `stable-perl` in dev. (Note - the replicaCount of the microservice should be maintained even if the `replicaCount` is set to a different value in the `values.yaml` file.

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit 5013cf3d768891bfb02fb4651a641f0723146087
Author: Theresa von Laffert <theresa.vonlaffert@hivemindtechnologies.com>
Date:   Sun Jan 7 15:14:32 2024 +0000

    add name

commit 003909e41ca14b8180192094161ec499040ec713
Author: Theresa von Laffert <theresa.vonlaffert@hivemindtechnologies.com>
Date:   Sun Jan 7 15:03:56 2024 +0000

    adding identifier

exercises/exercises.md, after:

# ArgoCD exercises

Note: Keep in mind that ArgoCD synchronises changes from a branch defined inside `targetRevision`. For the following exercises, the target branch is set to `exercises`. Please push all changes you make to the aforementioned branch.

## Exercise 1 - Basics
a) Create an ArgoCD Application for the Kubernetes manifests located inside the exercise-1 folder.  

b) Apply the application to a new namespace `exercise-1` in Argo.  

c) Change the number of replicas in the deployment. Check how Argo handles those changes.  

d) Change the image name in the deployment to something random (an image that does not exist e.g. "silly"). Push the changes to the repository via a new commit. Wait a little, and observe the behaviour of the deployment via the ArgoCD UI.

e) Roll back the changes via the ArgoCD UI. 

## Exercise 2 - Helm

a) Next, you will practise using an ArgoCD application to deploy the K8s-manifests used in the previous example as a Helm Chart. You will find the Helm related setup in the `exercise-2` folder. Create a new ArgoCD-Application-Manifest and deploy the Helm chart to a new namespace `exercise-2`.  

b) Change the ReplicationCount in the values file and apply the changes via a new Commit. 

## Exercise 3 - App of apps

Change `{YOURNAME}` in the `base-app.yaml` located inside the exercises-3 folder to your name before attempting the next steps.

a) Apply the base-app located inside the `exercise-3` folder as is. Once deployed, have a look at the values of the environment variables of one of the containers inside a microservices pod. What is the value? Can you explain your findings?  

b1) Set the value for the `environmentName` to "dev" inside the base-app. Re-apply the base app to the cluster. Monitor the change inside ArgoCD. Open the Live Manifest of one of the pods and have a look at the environment variables again. What has changed?  

b2) Open the `Parameters` section inside one of the microservices applications. Take a note of the replicaCount. Can you explain where this value originates?   

c) Could you come up with a solution for the following scenario?

The value of the `replicaCount` for "dev" should be changed to:
 - **5** for microservice-1  
 - **1** for microservice-2
 - microservice-3 should maintain the value **3** *independently* of the `environmentName` value. However, the image tag inside the deployment for microservice 3 should be set to `stable-perl` in dev. (Note - the replicaCount of the microservice should be maintained even if the `replicaCount` is set to a different value in the `values.yaml` file.
